What is TensorFLow?
TensorFlow is a open source library for numerical computation, specializing in machine learning applications.
This library is highly used for a branch of Machine Learning called Deep Learning.
Deep learning has produced exceptional results in the pasts few years specially in the field of Image classification.

What is the good thing about Deep Learning? Well you DON'T NEED to write features by hand. Try to remember the IRIS
flower data set that had 4 features. Sepal width and length, and petal width and length. Someone would have built up this
data set by measuring the length and width of several types of IRIS flowers. However, in Deep Learning, our input is only
a directory of image files (like jpeg, png etc). These images are scanned and a 2D array of pixels in these pictures is
what is used as the features automatically by the classifiers. Think about it this way. If I give you a picture of an orange,
would you want to write code yourself to find the texture of the fruit from the picture. No. We rather leave it to the
image classifier. Its very difficult to code features from images yourself.

At high level, the classifier we will be using in Deep Learning is called a Neural Network. At the top its just like any
other classifier, just that it can learn and have much complex functions.

A neural network classifier has several layers which are stacked on top of an-another. The input to the network are image
pixels for example, and the output is a prediction. At each layer of the network, we are looking for certain features in
the image. This is how each layer is getting trained. You can train each layer like this and the learning's from each
layer can be used to retrain (also called transfer learning) other classifiers.

For image classification specifically, there are many image classifiers (ie Neural Networks) already available. These are
actually called MODELS. It takes a lot of time and data to train every layer, so you typically don't create a new classifier
from scratch, you reuse one of these models and then retrain the top one, two, or more layers based on your own training data.

Example of image models are:
1) Inception -> Google's best image classifier, optimized for accuracy
2) Mobilenet --> Optimized for space and speed, at the cost of accuracy.
3) VGG16
4) AlexNet etc etc.

These models already have pre-trained layers which are very valuable at finding and summarizing information that will help
classify most of the images.

Now, you can write the code to create a Neural Network classifier and train it by yourself from scratch (which is hard).
However, google codelabs have a "Tensorflow for Poets" tutorial where they teach how to setup tensorflow and use it to
train an image classifier. this doesnt mean that its difficult to write and train classifiers in Tensorflow. Try to use
TF Learn for learning tensorflow. Its a machine learning library on top of tensorflow and the syntax is close to
scikit-learn.
