Why we need a messaging middleware, i.e. a messaging based solution?

Business requirements are changing constantly. You might have any of the following scenarios where messaging should be used.

1) An application which is 20 yrs old needs to exchange data with an application which is just written 2 days back.
2) Lets say twop companies are merging and their products need to exchange data.
3) Different applications of the same company want to exchange data.
etc etc..

Having a messaging based solution allows developers to focus on the business problem without worrying too much about transport, delivery, reliablity, recovery etc...
All of that will be handled by the messaging middleware.

Another feature of messaging framework is asynchronous messaging. i.e decoupling the two applications which are producing and consuming data.
The two applications need not be running and available at the same time.

Important feautres of message based solution:

1) Once-only processing - There should be not loss of duplication of messages. Business transaction should only be done once. 
2) Ubiquity - Messaging provder should be able to integrate applications on different operating systems & hardware requirements.
3) Easy to change, manage and configure
4) Performance & availability
5) Security

Examples:

Retail kiosks - Lets say there are 25000+ kiosks in a city all of which are connected to a central database.
Data is changing rapidly, and it needs to be distributed rapidly to these kiosks. Then all of them need to have the same consistent information.

Bank Transactions/Payments

IBM WebSphere MQ was introduced in 1993 under the name MQSeries focused on providing an available, reliable, scalable, secure, and high-performance transport mechanism.


IBM TDE (Tivoli Data Exchange) - Built on top of Websphere MQ.

WebSphere MQ File Transfer Edition is a solution for the integration of applications that are FILE-BASED and NOT MESSAGE-BASED,
making it possible to reliably transfer files between systems. WebSphere MQ File Transfer Edition provides management, monitoring, and security of those transfers.
WebSphere MQ File Transfer Edition uses existing skills and infrastructure as it uses WebSphere MQ as its backbone transfer medium.

Advanced Message Security (AMS) is a solution to the problem of securing message contents, even when those messages are at rest in queues or logs.
Several regulatory frameworks require data to be protected from viewing, changing, or being stored on disks in the clear even during processing.
One example of these regulations is the Payment Card Industry (PCI) for dealing with credit card data. There are other regulatory bodies for other
types of data, for example, healthcare, that have similar requirements.