Solace hardware based messaging middleware provides all benefits listed in 1_What_is_it.

1) Each solace router can handle the workload of about 30 servers running messaging software, so there are
   fewer devices to manage. You require less rack space, less power and cooling.
   
2) A single device can support many different types of messaging:
   a) Reliable
   b) Guaranteed
   c) JMS based

3) It provides a command line interface for managing and monitoring. It also provides a graphical tool
   called SolAdmin for the same. So you have single tool SolAdmin which is used to manage your messaging system
   and also troubleshoot problems with the appliance, your application or even network

4) The most important point is virtualization. Solace provides virtual messaging environments. In solace you can setup
   a messaging VPN. Each messaging VPN gives you your own fully compartmentalised virtual messaging environment. When
   these messaging VPN's are setup, messages never cross between environments, and administrators can fully configure the
   behavior of, and the resources available to each virtual messaging partition. You essentially you are using the same
   same Solace appliance (Solace actually calls it applicance as the "Solace Messaging Router")
   You can use this same virtualization concept to run several discrete development and test environments.
   Go back and check your Solace settings to see how stuff is getting routed in your environment.
   Solace supports the creation of hundreds of virtual messaging environments per appliance.
   Messages don’t cross between environments unless you want them to.

   
5) Solace routers have two planes. One is the control plane for managing and monitoring the appliance.
   The other plane is the data plane, which is made up of PCIe cards which manage protocol termination, message routing
   and persistence. So the flow of messages is completely separated from the management functionality.
   Also each message router is a chassis that can accomodate a number of hardware cards that perform functions such
   as network I/O, message routing, and guaranteed delivery. This lets customers configure them to meet their needs,
   and expand functionality over time within that same footprint. Second, Solace message routers automatically propagate
   subscriptions and share information about network availability so they can identify the shortest path for each message.
   This means the capacity and/or functionality of a system can be increased simply by deploying another message router.  
