Common fig commands

fig --list-local
While list all installed packages in the local fig repository (~/fighome)

fig --list-remote 
List all remote fig packages

fig --list-configs
Will list all the config in the package.fig file in the current directory

fig --list-configs xmlbeans/2.4.0
Will list all configs of the package specified from the local repository. If package does not exist, 
use the --update or --update-if-missing (-m) option to download the package from the remote repository
Downloaded packages are stored in 
~/.fighome/packages/
AND resources in 
~/.fighome/runtime

fig --list-dependencies
Will list dependencies of the package.fig in the current directory.

fig --list-dependencies xmlbeans/2.4.0
Will list all dependencies of the package specified as fetched from the local repository. If package does not exist, 
use the --update or --update-if-missing (-m) option to download the package from the remote repository

fig --list-variables : Same as above.
Will list all environment variables specified by the package.fig in the current directory

fig --list-variables xmlbeans/2.4.0
Will list all environment variables for the package specified as fetched from the local repository. If package does not exist, 
use the --update or --update-if-missing (-m) option to download the package from the remote repository

If you've had retrieves pull files into your current directory, you can ask which package they came from with the --source-package option.

fig --dump-package-definition-text
Will print the package.fig file from the current directory

fig --dump-package-definition-text xmlbeans/2.4.0
will print the package.fig file from the local repository.

fig --get VARIABLE [package-descriptor]
Will display the value of environment variables "VARIABLE" after the package settings are applied.
If VARIABLE is not modified, the existing value is displayed if the variables exists.

fig --json (--list-dependencies|--list-variables) package-descriptor
Will convert the output to a JSON format (an easy format for data exchange).


